## Instructions

In teams of 2 -3, discuss what revisions, if any, you think should be made to the document "Example Resume". Use the guidelines below for help getting starting and DO NOT open "Example Résumé Revised" until you are finished.

* Use powerful action verbs and engaging language to detail the most impactful parts of your past experience; be sure to highlight what’s most transferable to the job you’re applying for
* Avoid 5 -7 word lines
* Do not use periods at the end of fragments
* Pay attention to consistency in your format; how you present dates, the dashes between dates, how you bold or italicize your company, title, and extra lines between sections.
* Use past tense verbs for past experience

*Remember: keep this laser-focused! Use the heading “Relevant Experience” to give yourself flexibility on what to include. Also, don’t worry about adding too much content just yet. Typing out everything you can will help you see what you have to work with to make your résumé the most powerful version of itself it can be. *


### Coding experience guidelines and review

* Again, use powerful action verbs and engaging language to detail the most impactful parts of your coding experience. Also, avoid 5-7 word lines.
* Feel free to detail the user experience, challenges you faced, hurdles you’re proud of surmounting, new things you had to learn in order to build the product, or any other interesting information that shows how you learn and solve problems.
* Share the code link and deployment link, if available.
* Don’t be hesitant to share products from earlier in the cohort. Oftentimes, earlier projects show how far you’ve come and how you learn. Talk with your instructor if you’re unsure of what to highlight here.

### Education experience guidelines and review

* Only list education if one of the following is true:
  * You’ve earned a degree
  * Your education is tech-related
* You can list your dates a little differently. If you graduated from college many years ago, you can leave the date off. If you attended college intermittently, you can include just your graduation year.
* Don’t include extracurriculars unless they are tech-related

### About experience guidelines and review

* Always include this right under your contact info.
* Keep this in the 1-2, maybe 3 line range
* Always be engaging. This section describes who you are as a developer and shares some the "Why" behind your past experience and how it connects to your future.
* Do not use this as an objective section. Telling people you want a job has no place on your resume.

If you’re feeling stuck, one way to approach the "About" section is to consider some common theme in your previous experience. Why in your experience relates to why you’re pursuing a career as a developer. Is it a love of problem solving? creating? being on the cutting edge or being able to make history? bringing organization and beauty to chaos? Next, why are you passionate about these things? How can you connect these to your future. Here a few examples to help you get started:

*After a successful legal career that culminated in 4+ years as corporate counsel for a leading technology company, I become a developer to bridge my creative and analytical skills with my love of technology.*

*While programming started as a hobby in high school, it’s grown to a passion in my adult life. I love planning the elements of an app and creating it from scratch, and I can’t wait to do for a career what I’ve always done for fun.*
