# Cover Letter Resources

## Tools

Use the following tools to help you articulate your values, strengths, and story in your cover letter:

* <a href="https://www.grammarly.com/" target="_blank" style="color: rgb(59, 73, 78);"><u>Grammarly</u></a> makes sure everything you type is easy to read, effective, and mistake-free
* <a href="http://www.hemingwayapp.com/" target="_blank" style="color: rgb(59, 73, 78);">Hemmingway App</a>&nbsp;makes your writing bold and clear by highlighting lengthy, complex sentences and common errors
* <a href="http://www.wikihow.com/Make-a-Mac-Read-to-You" target="_blank" style="color: rgb(59, 73, 78);">Mac Speak Text</a>&nbsp;reads your words back to you so you can listen intently to your words, sentence length, and flow of thoughts.
* Mac Microphone; use your microphone to get your words out if you have writer’s block. Talk about your experience, why you’d be a good fit for the company, and listen back to yourself to scribe your best thoughts

## Sample Cover Letters

Read below for cover letter samples you can use for inspiration.

#### SALESLOFT EXAMPLE

Hello,

What initially drew me in when reading about the full stack developer position was the value that SalesLoft places on the quality of your products. After working as a consultant for the last 7 years, I fully identify with the drive to create software that works well for your customers. I was also thrilled to see that you love and support testing as much as I do!

I got my start in the software field as a Performance Tester. At my last job, I planned and managed projects of varied sizes, executed performance tests (so many tests), and implemented continuous testing practices. Earlier this year, however, I realized that performance testing wasn’t my ultimate career goal, so I took a lateral move into development by enrolling in the Web Development Immersive program at the Carolina Code School. The last few months have been a whirlwind of learning and making software - and I am completely hooked.

My past experiences combined with my development skills give me a unique perspective that you won’t find in many candidates. I’d love to discuss how we can make software together! I look forward to hearing from you.

#### LIONSGATE EXAMPLE

Hello!

As a working visual artist for the past six years, I've created process-driven, highly detail-oriented work for numerous galleries and events. Realizing I wanted more out of my career, I took the Web Development Immersive course at Carolina Code School, where I learned HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript. I immediately found that conceptualizing and creating a piece of art is much like creating a web application.

For the past three months, I have built numerous applications from the ground up using various libraries such as Backbone, AngularJS, and ReactJS working with Back End and Mobile iOS team mates. There is a strong emphasis in learning the concepts behind the code we write, allowing us to branch out and pick up coding languages on our own.

My background in art tied with my Front End Development experience gives me an edge in developing data-driven products with strong visual aesthetics in mind. Along with my extensive understanding of nerd culture, I would strive to find creative solutions to problems, contributing to the creation of a thriving community that users will enjoy for years to come.

I look forward to speaking with you soon! In the meantime, please visit my portfolio site below.

Sincerely,
Student
portfolio.url

#### TINDERBOX EXAMPLE

Hello, Samantha!

A few months ago I was fortunate enough to have the opportunity to visit TinderBox’s office. I was excited by the palpable sense of community among the TinderBox team and left the office hoping I would get a chance to revisit it, which is why I’m thrilled to see that you’re seeking a full stack Rails developer. I can’t think of a better place to continue building my skills in an impactful way.

I’ve spent the past three months fully immersed in code as a student at Carolina Code School. Through this experience I’ve gained far more than just a strong foundation in Ruby on Rails. I know the fundamentals of various front-end technologies, including HTML, CSS, Javascript, and jQuery; I can navigate a Git workflow with ease; and I’ve worked on a small team to build apps from back to front while practicing good project management. Most importantly, I’ve gained the tools I’ll need to continue to learn and grow as a developer.

Are you available sometime this Thursday or Friday to meet? I’d like to speak more about the possibility of joining your team. In the meantime, you can take a look at my portfolio at [link].

Thanks!
