If I'm a hiring manager and I receive an application, résumé, and cover letter from a candidate who appears to be a good fit, my first step will be to visit their portfolio site to see how they choose to present themselves and what they're capable of.

## WHAT IS A PORTFOLIO?

A portfolio is a collection of projects that display your work as a developer, so it's a great space to share your capabilities as a programmer and also your values and personal flair. It should showcase samples of some of your best projects and highlight aspects of your personal and working values and achievements.

## WHY DO I NEED A PORTFOLIO?

The information that you choose to display in your portfolio can be a useful tool in marketing yourself to employers: having a portfolio provides employers an effective one-stop-shop to access all of your job-search collateral, including links to your bio, blog, résumé, GitHub, LinkedIn.

## WHAT DOES A GOOD PORTFOLIO LOOK LIKE?

A good portfolio includes the following information:

* Easy-to-find contact information: Don't make a hiring manager take more than one step to connect with you!
* At least 3-4 projects: Describe your projects, and be sure to convey your process, too!
* An interesting bio: Provide 4-5 sentences that connect the dots between your previous experience and your life as a coder now. This is where you can provide some of your personal interests & accomplishments!
* Easily-accessible collateral: Be sure to have your Github, LinkedIn, and résumé readily available for when a hiring manager wants to learn more about you.
